and the recording
welcome everyone to this week's ipld
sync meeting
it's uh
march the 15th 2021
and as every week we go over the stuff
that we've
worked on on the past week and then
discuss any
open agenda items we might have um
i started myself i'm still on this js
multi-format stuff as the past
few weeks the good news is
that the um
js ipfs tests now
pairs when i use the js multi-formats
based
js iphone unicefs
so it's nice now i'm cleaning up the
stuff
and what i really try to do is
for those using the js stack it might be
interesting
is that um
i really want to get rid of a lot of
things that we currently have
so for example we currently have a
library called the block service
service which combines the is kind of
on top of bitswap and tokyo storage and
you can decide which one to use
and i want to for example move that one
just directly into as a file into js
ipfs
where it lives it does need to be its
separate
module for example and then also js ipld
should go away
and so the plan really is to get rid of
a lot of the
kind of what i consider legacy stuff
that we have in the
um ipld world in the js ipod world
and mostly have js multiformers and then
building books around that one
um yeah so we'll see how this goes
and yeah i still hope to finish this
quarter hopefully to get at least
[Music]
new version with chase modiform it's
integrated into js ipfs
this would be my goal all right
nothing else much
um oh i have some like it's not i
didn't do the work but perhaps it's
interesting to hear that the
rust ipld stuff is still getting better
and also there's a project called gm
rust oh no what's called ipfs ipfs
embed which is an ipfs
implementation in rust which is
finally also go ipfs compatible
um yeah which is kind of exciting
um what do you mean by it's go idea
that's compatible
uh they you you can
you can do bit swap with the go ipfs
implementation so bit swoop so i see
bitswap is compatible
so you can do bitswap you can connect
via bitswap to a go ipfs node
nice now we speak graph sync
yes uh but so i think so the people
currently developing it
are um mostly hectics in munich and they
so they had their custom implementation
but now they move on with this
implementation so
they will actually use this at one point
i guess in production so that's pretty
nice
and they needed a bit swap the the
actual bit swap um
yeah so that's that's kind of nice uh
yeah
i will put a link into the notes um yeah
cool um
yes so yeah and also like it's kind of
interesting for the
for this call for the april d call
because it's not really like a
full-blown
full ipfs compatible implementation of
ipvs
but it's really mostly i would say
ipld bit swap and le p2p basically mixed
together
so not the full full api
yeah okay so next on
my list is eric
okay so i have a nice simple
announcement because i put it all in a
release tag
there's a version 0.9.0 of go ipld prime
this finally includes the landing of all
of the link system stuff that i've been
talking about
over the last couple of weeks so this is
a breaking change
i've said i'm going to use odd numbers
to indicate breaking changes i'm going
to basically follow the
like linux versioning strategy here the
number goes up
and when it's an odd number things
probably change
so in this case the link system change
will
cause a lot of downstream code to need
at least slight adaptations
all the stuff that was previously a
bunch of logic attached to a link type
is now all centralized instead in a link
system type which operates more opaquely
over links
so links turn in more data carriers
code changed but so far we've been
pushing these down
into um downstream libraries that we
know about
and it's not very disruptive
so there's a nice tag for that and
anybody who is
consuming this should consider updating
at their leisure
um yeah i also added a section to the
notes after this which is
not me but things that i'm aware of that
are going on and i just kind of want to
like
hoist to public visibility
um some folks have started working on
making unix of sv1 stuff
legible in the go ipld prime universe as
an adl
so there's at least one repo out in the
wild now which is doing this it's under
the ipfs namespace and it's go
unix fs node
and this is it's probably one of maybe
several things that we'll see
like this that are making old unix best
v1 data legible to new systems
i think this one is taking the directory
nodes and
just making them visible as a map which
is of course a non-trivial transform
from the
dag pbe like literal layout of the data
because it uses a bunch of lists that
has maps inside of it and then the thing
that we
actually consider the map key for path
lookups practice is this specific key
inside of that map inside of the list
then um so now there's an adl which is
doing that transform transparently
and this will help make unix best v1
style pathing
just work in new ipld lands
so that's really exciting i think there
might be variations of that to come
i have no idea but the idea seems to be
working so far so good
um we'll see
there's another new repo that's been
spawned recently that people
might be interested in if they're
interested in
data transfer i guess there's a new repo
in the ipfs group called
go fetcher and
um i'm trying to i'm not entirely sure
how to sum this one up perfectly but i
think
the idea is to
extract some more of the interfaces
around how um
fetching works and
builds some sort of unification over the
old bit swap code and the new
graph sync code and just have a concept
of fetching and make that work
so we'll see how that one evolves i
think it's
possibly in the realm of glue code but
um
the people working on it are also
talking about how it might
inform garbage collection design in the
future and like might include hinting
for that
so if anyone listening is interested in
how those discussions want to evolve
then maybe they should go take a peek at
that repo
and go graphsync is one of the repos
that we are updating to go ipld prime
v0.9.0 with these links system things so
there's a pr out for that and i put this
in the notes to me let's go look at it
the diff is large but it's also like
pretty semantically smooth
just grind out the syntactical changes
of what exactly goes where and
yeah once you once you see the pattern
it's like oh man
so if anyone else needs to update a
bunch of code and wants to see what it
looks like
there's some reference and that's it
there's probably other cool stuff going
on
but that's all i know
cool thanks um
[Music]
does anyone else have any updates
or anything to share or wants to discuss
anything uh not today
i mean okay um
yeah that is it was a quick meeting um i
actually
like the idea of doing also like reports
from like other folks what's going on
um so perhaps we like i will also like
think about
next time think about things i polly
related that i
come across but not like it's not
actually my work so
good point cool
yeah so thanks everyone for attending
and see you again next week